bringing the people behind our food to
life
I actually just harvested a bunch but so
this is our red kale and what I like
about the kale is the stock that's what
pays feel good to me that's where you
can only taste the sweetness I like
cabbage that would be plating there on
the same family and then so would you
just rip the leaves and braise them
that's what I like to do well what we
usually do here at the farm is we would
strip the leaves maybe or just chop the
stems and saute those with the onions
and then add the greens at the end yeah
but I love the crunchy bacon fat yeah
yeah those are really good there are a
lot of kales where people just sort of
strip off the leaves and they don't
actually eat the I know this is a pro
stem farm we're in this era we always
use the stems I like the stems with the
chard I like stems of collards I just
sauteed them first and I feel like it's
a good part of the plant with lots of
nutrients so why would you waste that
part so so in winter the colder it gets
is it true I've heard that that the the
leaves get more tender the best time for
kale the flavor gets sweeter is what
happens because kales and the whole
Brassica family they have something like
an antifreeze in them and so when the
cold kicks in it turns them sweet so
that's why to meet kale is such a
perfect winter crop as opposed to a
summer crop because it doesn't it's
something about the colder the weather
the more it activates the antifreeze
component and I don't know the chemistry
about that I just know that that's what
makes it sweeter mmm that's really sweet
yeah oh my gosh yeah and it's abilities
and it brings out the colors too so this
is the last annatto kale here so this is
a really different kale and this has 12
different names at least it's called
black kale or Nero day Toscano or
lacinato or Dino kale I think someone
thinks it looks a little bit like a
dinosaur and it's I think it looks like
a palm tree if we're to keep growing and
you keep picking the bottom leaves
pretty soon you'd have a palm tree
looking thing here see how different it
is it's got really savoy leaves and
quite a different flavor - yeah it's a
less Brassica e and mm-hmm so when you
harvest it you're just pulling leaves
they look good juicy leaves off and then
bundling them together or you don't
bundle em we just put them in a big case
and you know sell it by the pound so
people buy five pounds we just kind of
pull it off like that and then the plant
just keeps going it yeah it'll it'll
keep going up the side these are these
are some nice leaves here come over here
I need it a couple more pounds yeah
that's no good so that looks frozen to
me that's no good but these look great
yeah so next week it'll be on our on our
list for your sales
you